ajkdd Bat-and-ball games (or safe haven games to avoid confusion with club 
games such as golf and hockey) are field games played by two opposing teams.[1] 
The teams alternate between "batting" roles, sometimes called "in at bat" 
and "out in the field", or simply in and out. Only the batting team may 
score, but they have equal chances in both roles. The game is counted rather 
than timed. A player on the fielding team puts the ball in play with a 
delivery whose restriction depends on the game. A player on the batting 
team attempts to strike the delivered ball, commonly with a "bat", which 
is a club governed by the rules of the game. After striking the ball, the 
batter may become a runner trying to reach a safe haven or "base". While 
in contact with a base, the runner is safe from the fielding team and in 
a position to score runs. Leaving a safe haven places the runner in danger 
of being put out. The teams switch roles when the fielding team puts the 
batting team out, which varies by game. In modern baseball the fielders 
put three players out; in cricket they retire all players but one. Some 
games permit multiple runners and some have multiple bases to run in sequence. 
Batting may occur, and running begin, at one of the bases. The movement 
between those "safe havens" is governed by the rules of the particular 
game. Globally, cricket and baseball are the two most popular games in 
the family. Contents 1 List of bat-and-ball games 1.1 Mainstream sports 
1.2 Other games 1.3 Hybrid bat-and-ball games 1.3.1 Non bat-and-ball games 
2 References 3 External links List of bat-and-ball games[edit] Mainstream 
sports[edit] Baseball – four bases Softball Cricket – two wickets Test 
Cricket First-Class Cricket Blind Cricket Catchy Shubby Club Cricket French 
Cricket Kilikiti One Day International Kwik Cricket List-A Cricket Pro40 
Indoor Cricket Limited-Overs Cricket Short form cricket Single Wicket Twenty20 
Other games[edit] Bat-and-Trap British Baseball – four posts Brännboll 
– four bases Corkball – four bases (no base-running) Crocker (sport) Danish 
logball Elle Extreme Baseball a.k.a. Double Diamond Baseball Fuzzball Gilli-Danda 
Indian Ball Johnball Khudo Khundi Lapta – two salos (bases) The Massachusetts 
Game – four bases Oina Old Cat (One old cat, Two old cat, etc.) – variable 
Over-the-Line – qv Palant Pesäpallo – four bases Pentagram Baseball - five 
bases Rounders – four bases or posts run anti-clockwise Schlagball Scrub 
Baseball – four bases (not a team game per se) Stickball – variable Stoolball 
– two stools T-Ball Town ball – variable Vigoro – two wickets Wiffle ball 
Wireball Hybrid bat-and-ball games[edit] Composite rules Softball-Baseball 
- a hybrid bat-and-ball sports which combines the elements of Baseball 
and Softball, played on the large identical baseball diamond with the larger 
ball, ten rather than nine innings, and allowed to pitching the ball either 
underarm, overarm, or sidearm. Composite rules Baseball-Cricket - a hybrid 
bat-and-ball games combining elements of baseball and cricket, played by 
two teams of 12 players with the 9-inch diameter baseball on the oval-shaped 
field about 220 yards long by 176 yards wide, at the center of which is 
a baseball field about 92 feet apart with the rectangular 66 feet 6 inch 
by 12 feet pitching area roughly at a distance between the pitcher and 
2 batters (consists of the striking batter and non-striking batter), equidistant 
between first and third base, and a few feet closer to home plate than 
to second base. The objective is one batter (striking batter) on and at 
the right batter's box is been pitch to, other batter (non-striking batter) 
stands on the left batter's box, then the striking batter must hit it and 
batter must runs around the bases in the normal counterclockwise direction, 
while the non-striking batter runs around bases in a clockwise direction 
at the same time. The game could last 12 innings of 5 overs. Non bat-and-ball 
games[edit] Striking the ball with a "bat" or any type of stick is not 
crucial. These games use the foot or hand. Otherwise their rules may be 
similar or even identical to baseball. The first two use a large (35 cm) 
soft ball. Kickball – four bases, sometimes called soccer baseball Matball 
– kickball with gym mats for bases Punchball – four bases, sometimes called 
volleyball-style baseball or slug References[edit] ^ Usually. In some games 
for a small number of players, such as workup and the old-cat games, there 
are no teams and players rotate through the positions. External links[edit] 
Project Protoball Johnball Bat And Ball Game Best Youth Baseball Bat 2016 
v t e Interdependent team sports Sport Governing bodies Sportspeople National 
sport Basket sports Basketball beach deaf 3x3 water wheelchair Cestoball 
Korfball Netball Fast5 indoor wheelchair Rezball Ringball Slamball Football 
codes Association football Amputee Beach Freestyle Futsal Indoor Jorkyball 
Paralympic Powerchair Roller Street Walking Australian rules football Lightning 
football Metro footy Mini footy Nine-a-side Rec footy Gaelic football Ladies' 
Circle rules football Gridiron codes American football eight-man flag nine-man 
six-man sprint touch wheelchair Canadian football Indoor American football 
Arena football Hybrid codes Austus Eton wall game International rules football 
Samoa rules Speedball Swedish football Universal football Volata Medieval 
football codes Ba game Caid Calcio fiorentino Camping Cnapan Cornish hurling 
Cuju Harpastum Kemari Ki-o-rahi Jegichagi La soule Lelo burti Marn grook 
Pasuckuakohowog Royal Shrovetide Uppies and downies Yubi lakpi Rugby codes 
Beach Rugby league masters mini mod nines sevens tag touch wheelchair Rugby 
union American flag mini sevens snow tag touch tens Wheelchair Bat-and-ball 
games Baseball Brännboll British baseball Cricket One Day Test Twenty20 
Danish longball Indoor cricket Kickball Lapta Matball Oină Over-the-line 
Pesäpallo Rounders Softball Fastpitch Stoolball Town ball Vigoro Wiffle 
ball Wireball Stick and ball sports Bando Cammag Hurling Camogie Super11s 
Shinty–Hurling Indigenous North American stickball Iomain Knattleikr Knotty 
Lacrosse box/indoor field intercrosse women's Ritinis Shinty Shinty–Hurling 
Hockey sports Ball hockey Bandy rink Broomball Moscow Field hockey indoor 
Floor hockey Floorball Ice hockey pond power sledge underwater Ringette 
Roller hockey in-line quad Rossall hockey Shinny Street hockey Underwater 
hockey Unicycle hockey Polo sports Auto polo Cowboy polo Cycle polo Elephant 
polo Horseball Pato Polo chovgan Polocrosse Segway polo Yak polo Net sports 
Ball badminton Beach tennis Biribol Bossaball Fistball Footbag net Football 
tennis Footvolley Jianzi Jokgu Newcomb ball Peteca Sepak takraw Throwball 
Volleyball beach paralympic Other sports Airsoft Angleball Basque pelota 
frontenis jai alai xare Bo-taoshi Boules Bocce Boccia Bowls Jeu provençal 
Pétanque Buzkashi Combat (juggling) Curling wheelchair Cycle ball Digor 
Dodgeball Flickerball Gateball Goalball Handball beach Czech field Hornussen 
Ice stock sport Jereed Kabaddi Kho kho Kin-Ball Lagori Mesoamerican ballgame 
Paintball Pelota mixteca Prisonball Quidditch Rollball Roller derby Slahal 
Snow snake Tamburello Tchoukball Tejo Tug of war Ulama Ultimate Underwater 
football Underwater rugby Valencian pilota Water polo canoe inner tube 
Waboba Whirlyball Woodball Yukigassen Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Bat-and-ball_games&oldid=748319475" 
Categories: Ball games Ball and bat games Hidden categories: Articles lacking 
in-text citations from May 2012 All articles lacking in-text citations 
Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged in Talk Contributions Create 
account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants Views Read Edit View history 
More Search Navigation Main page Contents Featured content Current events 
Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia store Interaction Help About 
Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes Contact page Tools What links 
here Related changes Upload file Special pages Permanent link Page information 
Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export Create a book Download as PDF 
Printable version Languages Deutsch සිංහල Simple English Edit links This 
page was last modified on 7 November 2016, at 16:20. Text is available 
under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms 
may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy 
Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, 
Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy About Wikipedia Disclaimers 
