ajkdd In baseball, batting is the act of facing the opposing pitcher and 
trying to produce offense for one's team. A batter or hitter is a person 
whose turn it is to face the pitcher. The three main goals of batters are 
to become a baserunner, drive runners home, or advance runners along the 
bases for others to drive home, but the techniques and strategies they 
use to do so vary. Hitting uses a motion that is virtually unique to baseball, 
one that is rarely used in other sports. Hitting is unique because unlike 
most sports movements in the vertical plane of movement hitting involves 
rotating in the horizontal plane.[1] Contents 1 Goals 2 Success in batting 
3 Strategy 4 Warming up 5 The lineup 6 Types of hitters 7 History of the 
bat 8 Types of bats 9 Bat design 10 Bat manufacture 11 See also 12 References 
13 Further reading Goals[edit] In general, batters try to get hits. However, 
their primary objective is to avoid making an out, and helping their team 
to score runs. There are several ways they can help their team score runs. 
They may draw a walk if they receive and do not swing the bat at four pitches 
located outside the strike zone. In cases when there is a runner on third 
and fewer than two outs, they can attempt to hit a sacrifice fly to drive 
the runner in by allowing the runner on third to tag up and score. When 
there are fewer than two outs and runners on base, they can try to sacrifice 
bunt to advance the runner(s) or, with a runner on first or with runners 
on first and third, they can try a hit and run play, also designed to advance 
the runner(s). They might even be hit by a pitch, reach on an error or—if 
first is empty or there are two outs—on a dropped third strike.[2] The 
defense attempts to get the batter out. The pitcher's main role in this 
is to throw the ball in such a way that the batter either strikes out or 
cannot hit it cleanly so that the defense can get him or her out. Success 
in batting[edit] Batting is often cited as one of the most difficult feats 
in sports because it consists of hitting a small round ball, usually moving 
at high velocity, with a thin round bat. In fact, if a batter can get a 
hit in three out of ten at bats, giving him a batting average of .300 (pronounced 
"three hundred"), he or she is considered a good hitter. In Major League 
Baseball, no batter has had over a .400 average at the end of the season 
since Ted Williams in 1941, and no batter has ever hit over .367 in a lifetime—Ty 
Cobb hit .3664.[3] In modern times, the statistic on-base plus slugging 
(OPS) is seen as a more accurate measure of a player's ability as a batter; 
this stat combines the player's on-base percentage (a percentage of their 
plate appearances where the batter gets on base), with the player's slugging 
percentage (an average of total bases with at-bats). An OPS at or near 
1.000 is considered to be the mark of an exceptional hitter. A sustained 
OPS at or above 1.000 over a career is a feat only a few hitters have ever 
been able to reach. Strategy[edit] Play media Hiroshima Toyo Carp player 
38, Masato Akamatsu, batting a ball. Batters vary in their approach at 
the plate. Some are aggressive hitters, often swinging at the first pitch 
(as pitchers often attempt to throw a first-pitch strike). Others are patient, 
attempting to work the pitch count in order to observe all the types of 
pitches a pitcher will use, as well as tire out the pitcher by forcing 
him to throw many pitches early. Generally, contact hitters are more aggressive, 
swinging at pitches within the strike zone, whereas power hitters will 
lay off borderline strikes in order to get a pitch they can drive for extra 
bases. Warming up[edit] In preparation of hitting, every baseball player 
has their own particular warm-up routine. Warming up before the game is 
usually done as a team, at the amateur level, and focuses on helping the 
hitter get in the correct mindset to hit the ball. The most notable drill 
used is the "Tee Drill", where you hit a ball off a baseball tee and correct 
any issues you found during previous games or practices.[4] There are also 
various hitting devices used during warm up in the "on deck circle" to 
try and increase the batter's bat velocity. The over weighted supplemental 
devices include swinging multiple bats, Schutt Dirx (96 oz),[5] Pitcher's 
Nightmare,[6] Power Fin (14 oz),[7] Standard 23 oz softball bat, heavier 
26 oz softball bat, lighter 18 oz softball bat and Doughnut ring (16 oz).[8][9][10] 
Weighted warm-up devices are commonly used because players feel that warming-up 
with heavier bats will help them increase bat velocity because after the 
warm-up with a heavier bat, the normal bat feels lighter and they feel 
they could swing it faster.[11] The effect of these devices is not only 
mental, but it may also be physical. Heavy warm up loads stimulate the 
neural system, allowing for increased muscle activation during lighter 
bat swings. The use of weighted bats is based on the theory of complex 
training where sets of heavier and lighter resistances are alternated to 
increase muscle performance. This theory revolves around the idea that 
muscle contractions are stronger after reaching near maximal contractions. 
The postactivation potentiation improves motor neuron pool excitability 
and increases the number of recruited motor units, both leading to greater 
power output. The additional weight may also help strengthen the muscles 
of the forearms and wrist thus increasing bat velocity,[12] though some 
evidence suggests that the effect is psychological rather than biomechanical. 
[13] Barry Bonds in the on deck circle with various warm up devices. The 
lineup[edit] Main article: batting order (baseball) The lineup or batting 
order is a list of the nine baseball players for a team in the order they 
will bat during the game. During the game the only way to change the lineup 
is via substitution, as batting out of turn is not allowed. Once the ninth 
person in the lineup finishes batting, the first person bats again; this 
is the top of the order. Lineups are designed to facilitate manufacturing 
runs. Depending on batters' skills, they might be placed in different parts 
of the lineup. Of course, when it comes down to it, all batters are attempting 
to create runs for the team. The player currently batting in a game is 
said to be at the plate, at bat, or up to bat (shortened to up). To keep 
the game moving at an orderly pace, the next batter due up waits to take 
his turn in a circle (actually marked or imaginary) between his team's 
dugout or bench and the batter's box, and is said to be on deck, with the 
circle known as the on deck circle. The player in the batting order after 
the on deck batter is said to be in the hole.[14] Types of hitters[edit] 
Power hitters: power hitters, or sluggers, are batters who drive the ball, 
often hitting home runs and other extra-base hits, but tend to strike out 
more often than contact hitters. See also slugging percentage. Pull Hitters: 
batters who tend to hit the ball to the same side of the field as the side 
of the plate they are standing on. Opposite Field Hitters: batters who 
are able to delay their swing by a fraction of a second so as to drive 
the ball in the side of the field opposite from the side of the plate they 
are standing on. Opposite field hitting does not come naturally to most 
batters, and not many players have the bat control necessary for opposite 
field hitting. Derek Jeter is well known for his ability as an opposite 
field hitter.[15] Contact hitters: batters who do not strike out often 
and are able to put the ball in play very often. Because of this, they 
tend to hit fewer home runs than power hitters. Slap hitters: slap hitters 
are batters who rarely try to drive the ball; instead these hitters simply 
try to "slap" the ball through the infielders to reach base. Complete hitters: 
players who can not only slap the ball, but can come up with extra base 
hits. Designated hitters: used primarily by the American League as a substitute 
for the pitcher, but only for batting. National League teams may use a 
DH when in an AL ballpark. If an American League team is playing in a National 
League ballpark, the DH may not be used. Switch hitters: capable of batting 
left or right-handed Pinch hitters: a substitute hitter for the scheduled 
batter in the lineup. A DH acts as a permanent pinch hitter for the pitcher. 
Once a pinch hitter bats, he will replace the previous batter in the lineup 
unless a substitution is made. The NL occasionally uses pinch hitters in 
place of pitchers when not playing in an AL ballpark. History of the bat[edit] 
When baseball was in its beginning years, baseball players made their own 
bats. This allowed players to experiment with different shapes and sizes 
of the bats. It did not take long for players to realize that the best 
bats were those with rounded barrels. Wood bats are rare at most levels 
other than the pros. The majority of wood baseball bats today are made 
from northern white ash harvested from Pennsylvania or New York. White 
ash is used because of its hardness, durability, strength, weight and feel. 
Trees that provide the lumber for baseball bats are often 50 years old, 
and of all the lumber harvested, the top 10 percent is saved for pro bats. 
Recent technology in drying wood has created bats with lower moisture content, 
which are light enough to make effective baseball bats. Rock or Sugar Maple 
bats are preferred. Maple bats cost more than white ash, but they often 
last longer as a result of their high strength.[citation needed] Types 
of bats[edit] In addition to the Louisville Slugger, there are many other 
types of bats that have been used throughout the history of baseball. Player 
and Event Type of Bat Used Barry Bonds sets all-time home run record Sam 
Bat Mike Piazza breaks all-time home run mark for catcher Mizuno Sammy 
Sosa hits 500th home run Easton Mark McGwire sets single-season home run 
record Rawlings Babe Ruth hits 3 home runs in one game Hillerich & Bradsby 
The introduction of aluminum baseball bats in the 1970s forever changed 
the game of baseball at every level but the professional. Aluminum bats 
are lighter and stronger than wooden bats. Because of the trampoline effect 
that occurs when a baseball hit an aluminum bat, aluminum bats can hit 
a ball significantly farther than wooden bats can. In light of the increase 
in power of composite and alloy bats, the NCAA and NFHS have adopted more 
stringent standards against the use of composite and alloy bats. The NCAA 
changed standards at the start of the 2011 season, and the NFHS plans to 
complete the change in the 2012 baseball season.[needs update] Bat design[edit] 
The design of bats also continues to evolve as manufactures search for 
ways to magnify the trampoline effect and increase the size of the bat’s 
“sweet spot.” In aluminum bats, a double-walled bat was introduced in the 
late 1990s. This design comprises an outer wall of scandium-aluminum, an 
inner wall of a composite material, and a “filling of rubber or a thick 
fluid between the two walls. Bat manufacture[edit] A mill worker places 
each split onto an automatic lathe that shaves the rough edges off as it 
turns the wood. The billets, as they are now called, are inspected again 
for straightness of grain. The billets are stacked and strapped together 
into six-sided bundles. Workers paint the ends with a protective preservative 
to keep the wood from fraying or rotting. The bundled billets are then 
trucked to the lumberyard of the bat manufacturer. The billets that arrive 
at the lumberyard are considered "green" wood because they still contain 
sap and gum. In order to strengthen the wood, the sap and gum must be removed 
by an air-drying process called "seasoning." To achieve the proper seasoning, 
the billets are simply stacked in the yard for a period of six months to 
two years. When the billets have dried completely, they are weighed and 
inspected for quality. A worker places each billet on an automatic lathe 
and shapes it into a rough baseball bat shape with a narrowed neck. The 
bat forms are sanded, inspected once more, and then sorted according to 
weight. The bat manufacturer keeps a model of each bat made, typically 
identified by the baseball player who initially ordered it. When a player 
or team places an order, the order may look like this: six Johnny Bench 
models, ten Hank Aarons, four Mickey Mantles. The plant workers who create 
the final product are called bat turners. They are highly skilled artisans 
who have been specially trained for the intricate work. When an order is 
placed, the bat turner selects a billet from the storage bin that fits 
the called-for weight and length. The billet is placed on a lathe. The 
model bat is placed on a rack above and behind the lathe. The bat turner 
revolves the billet slowly on the lathe, sanding and shaving it to an exact 
replica of the model. Using calipers, the bat turner measures the billet 
every 1-2 inches (2.54–5 cm) and weighs it repeatedly until it is perfect. 
The bat is branded with the company trademark and the signature of the 
player associated with the model. The trademark is placed one-quarter of 
a turn from the sweet spot. If the order calls for staining, the bat is 
dipped into a staining vat. All of the bats are then varnished, packed 
into cartons, and shipped to the player or team. See also[edit] Baseball 
portal Batting (cricket) Checked swing References[edit] ^ Eben, W.P. (June 
2006). "Multimode Resistance Training to Improve Baseball Batting Power". 
Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research. 28 (3): 32–36. doi:10.1519/00126548-200606000-00005. 
Retrieved March 14, 2013.  ^ Baseball Explained by Phillip Mahony, McFarland 
Books, 2014. See www.baseballexplained.com ^ "Career Leaders & Records 
for Batting Average". Sports Reference LLC. Retrieved April 6, 2010.  ^ 
"Baseball Hitting Drills". Retrieved May 23, 2016.  ^ Schutt Dirx. "Dirx 
Warm-Up Bat". Schutt Dirx. Retrieved March 14, 2013.  ^ Pitchers Nightmare. 
"Pitchers Nightmare". Retrieved March 14, 2013.  ^ Power Fin. "Power Fin". 
Power Fin. Retrieved March 14, 2013.  ^ DeRenne, C (April 2009). "Effect 
of Baseball Weighted Implemented Training: A Brief Review". Journal of 
Strength and Conditioning Research. 31 (2): 30–37. doi:10.1519/ssc.0b013e31819d3396. 
Retrieved March 14, 2013.  ^ Szymanski, D.J. (February 2011). "Effects 
of Various Warm-up Devices on Bat Velocity of Intercollegiate Baseball 
Players". Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research. 25 (2): 287–292. 
doi:10.1519/jsc.0b013e318202e31e. Retrieved March 14, 2013.  ^ Szymanski, 
David (2012). "Effect of Various Warm-up Devices on Bat Velocity of Intercollegiate 
Softball Players". Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research. 26 (1): 
199–205. doi:10.1519/jsc.0b013e31821b7cde. Retrieved March 15, 2013.  ^ 
Montoya, B.J. (2009). "Effect of Warm-up With Different Weighted Bats on 
Normal Baseball Bat Velocity". Journal of Strength and Conditioning Research. 
23 (5): 1566–1569. doi:10.1519/jsc.0b013e3181a3929e. Retrieved March 15, 
2013.  ^ Reyes, Francis (2009). "Acute Effects of Various Weighted Bat 
Warm-Up Protocols on Bat Velocity". Journal of Strength and Conditioning 
Research. 23 (7): 2114–2118. doi:10.1519/jsc.0b013e3181b3dd32. Retrieved 
March 15, 2013.  ^ Otsuji, Tamiki; Abe, Masafumi; Kinoshita, Hiroshi (2002-02-01). 
"After-Effects of Using a Weighted Bat on Subsequent Swing Velocity and 
Batters' Perceptions of Swing Velocity and Heaviness". Perceptual and Motor 
Skills. 94 (1): 119–126. doi:10.2466/pms.2002.94.1.119. ISSN 0031-5125. 
PMID 11883550.  ^ "Baseball Basics: Lingo". MLB.com. MLB. Retrieved April 
27, 2014.  ^ Baseball Explained, by Phillip Mahony. McFarland Books, 2014. 
See www.baseballexplained.com Further reading[edit] Wikimedia Commons has 
media related to Batters (baseball). Quiroli, Jessica (October 20, 2011). 
"Delaware University Professor's New Study Shows Hitting, Not Pitching 
More Valuable". Baseball Digest. Retrieved October 21, 2011.  Official 
Rules of Major League Baseball "The Batter" v t e Baseball positions Pitchers 
by role Ace pitcher Starting pitcher Relief pitcher Middle relief pitcher 
Long reliever Setup man Closer Left-handed specialist by style Power pitcher 
Control pitcher Ground ball pitcher Fly ball pitcher Switch pitcher Defensive 
players by number Pitcher (1 / P) Catcher (2 / C) First baseman (3 / 1B) 
Second baseman (4 / 2B) Third baseman (5 / 3B) Shortstop (6 / SS) Left 
fielder (7 / LF) Center fielder (8 / CF) Right fielder (9 / RF) by type 
Pitcher Catcher Infielder Outfielder Utility player Utility infielder Position 
player Fourth outfielder Corner outfielder Offensive players by role Batter 
Runner Batting order (1–9) Designated hitter Pinch hitter Pinch runner 
Lead off Leadoff hitter Cleanup hitter by style Clutch hitter Contact hitter 
Power hitter Switch hitter Non-players Official scorer Umpire Manager Coaches 
Batboy Ball boy/girl General manager Related Captain Battery Disabled list 
Phantom ballplayer Platoon system Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Batting_(baseball)&oldid=746663997" 
Categories: Batting (baseball) Baseball positions Hidden categories: Use 
mdy dates from November 2014 All articles with unsourced statements Articles 
with unsourced statements from September 2013 Wikipedia articles in need 
of updating from January 2012 Commons category without a link on Wikidata 
Articles containing video clips Navigation menu Personal tools Not logged 
in Talk Contributions Create account Log in Namespaces Article Talk Variants 
Views Read Edit View history More Search Navigation Main page Contents 
Featured content Current events Random article Donate to Wikipedia Wikipedia 
store Interaction Help About Wikipedia Community portal Recent changes 
Contact page Tools What links here Related changes Upload file Special 
pages Permanent link Page information Wikidata item Cite this page Print/export 
Create a book Download as PDF Printable version Languages 한국어 Italiano 
日本語 Simple English Edit links This page was last modified on 28 October 
2016, at 19:45. Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike 
License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the 
Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of 
the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization. Privacy policy 
About Wikipedia Disclaimers Contact Wikipedia Developers Cookie statement 
